two years ago my kids asked if we could
go out and see Avatar too and I said
sure but only after you've experienced
the first one the way James Cameron
intended in glorious 3D that would have
been pretty easy they put it back in
theaters to make sure that everyone
could remember the names of the various
Smurfs but then I thought why go out for
theater when we have theater at home and
I was shocked to discover that dozens of
movies are still being released on 3D
Blu-ray every single year all I needed
to do to enjoy them was to convert my
regular old home theater to a 3D home
theater there was only one small problem
actually a lot of small problems which
is why we started filming this video in
December of 2022 and you're only
watching it now see in spite of the hype
around it back in the late 2000s almost
no new hardware supports 3D anymore and
even if we did go dumpster diving on
eBay most Home Solutions require active
shutter glasses which give my wife a
splitting headache leaving us with only
one real option a passive 3D setup like
they have in the movie theaters with
dual projectors these unobtanium filters
and a whole lot of Jank also a whole lot
of segue to our sponsor vessie say
goodbye to wet socks and hello to big
savings score up to 40% off select
Styles during their Black Friday sale at
vessie decom or click our Link in the
description
[Music]
before you all come flooding into the
comments the real reason that I wanted a
3D setup down here was that
retrospective that we did back in
2022 I didn't mean to fall back in love
with 3D but come on how many of you have
fallen into the same trap it's just
coffee right and who can blame me for
getting sucked back in even without a
Time of new releases there is a
surprisingly Rich back catalog of 3D
Blu-rays to enjoy especially computer
animated ones that benefit immensely
from the 3D experience except that now
there's a giant elephant in the room see
back when I had planned this upgrade I
had a projection setup already now I
have a TV which is going to turn these
3D projectors into a gigantic downgrade
for anything that's not 3D we're going
to deal with that later first let's take
a look at the plan the first thing we
knew we needed was two image sources
each with its own polarizing filter and
this is where we hit our first major
roadblock the Epson ls2000 that I used
to have in my theater room uses a laser
light source and after trying multiple
filters both circular and linear we
found that it simply couldn't be
effectively polarized for context here's
how that demo was supposed to go see how
the image gets dimmer but doesn't
doesn't turn green yeah oh I guess now's
a good time to introduce our projectors
since I've already wasted more resources
than I'd like to admit on this endeavor
we went for an eBay special now sadly
the Optima uhd30 doesn't have lens shift
to help us line up the images but what
it does have is 4K output 3400 lumens of
peak brightness which is really
important when you're polarizing filter
it's going to sap so much of your
brightness and perhaps most importantly
give you picked up for as little as $500
Freedom do each next let's talk about
these
filters careful with that one getting
these bad boys was both timec consuming
and shockingly expensive since you know
no one bothers to build 3D projection
setups anymore there are still commodity
options available we found some pretty
affordable plastic and acrylic ones but
the quality was frankly terrible so
after digging through countless ancient
Forum posts and contacting all the
experts we could find we made our way to
American polarizers Inc who appears to
be the go-to for professional
installations with a price tag to match
this is my first time seeing them who
there they are this pair of clockwise
and counterclockwise polarizing filters
also a family pack of 3D glasses set us
back over
$1,500 and the worst part we are nowhere
near ready to actually watch a 3D movie
buddy I can already tell just putting
these on these are way better than the
cheap single- use glasses and the
plastic filters dude check this out wao
like it blocks holy cow the
light oh dude this might actually be
cool but it's 3D of course it's cool
here's the thing though Elijah remember
how we reviewed the script and
everything yes this is the part where
I'm no longer sure if what we scripted
is going to actually happen
oh yeah it did which sucks for anyone
trying to make a 3D setup but it's good
for me because it means I didn't waste
my money here's the thing as it turns
out there's some pretty dark magic
involved in getting the polarized light
coming out of our filtered projector to
stay polarized after it bounces off of a
screen and into your eyeholes now before
you point out rightly that this is not a
screen this is just a wall I did try
using a proper screen my old one from
Elon Vision but even though it mentioned
3D on the product page it turns out they
were only referring to Active 3D like
where the projector will alternate
between left and right eye images and
you have glasses that Alternate which
eye is covered by that logic any screen
is a 3D screen so it had to go and in
its place I picked up this one from
Stewart this is their silver 5D screen
screen meaning it's been optimized for
2D and 3D hence the 5D now the
information around how these materials
retain close to 100% polarization a
little thin on the ground but these guys
basically have a monopoly on this stuff
these days so after much deliberation I
bit the bullet the
$6,000 bullet a silver bullet you might
say this has been sitting in my house
for like I kid you not over a year it
has not been over a year trust me I know
because I tripped over it constantly it
was right next to my car this better
work cuz if not this video is done for I
don't think I'm going to invest in
another attempt at this why don't you
just buy a clex projector why don't you
just buy a CLE oh but I can't afford a
coplex the theater industry is not
hurting that bad yet soon yeah give it
time oh wow the off axis viewing of this
is flipping terrible like watch if I
move the
yeah look at that actually man oh wow
even without the polarizing filter this
screen compared to my old one has
terrible viewing angles I mean you
should never be sitting this close to a
projector screen anyway here let's let's
stand a reasonable distance away hold on
hold
on I mean that's better but I guess
there's a reason they don't use silver
screens anymore big moment here we go
oh when were you going to tell me I
wanted to see how long it would go okay
big moment big moment now if it really
doesn't work there's actually nothing
stopping okay
yes oh shoot oh it works real good
really yeah okay check it out check it
out She Bangs dude that's wow yeah
that's really impressive that is pretty
minimal cross talk I mean it should be
this is a professional grade solution
the Disposable glasses work okay with it
I mean if it's good enough for the
theater right like it's good enough for
me uh okay well they have their own
problems but
anyway oh oh I don't have the filter on
it again damn
it okay you don't want to leave the
filter super close to the projector like
we have it right now because it'll
actually heat it up and it can burn the
filter so I had put it down for it was
the reason I did that yeah these kind of
suck by comparison you can really tell
you know the difference between glass
and plastic like it's a super cloudy
image and it doesn't block nearly as
much and it distorts it you see that now
I really don't know how much of a guide
this video needs to be because probably
most of you aren't going to do this but
our first attempt at finding polarizing
filters used linear filters these are
advantageous because they're cheap but
they are disadvantageous because if you
tilt your head while you're watching
it'll actually switch which I can see
and which one can't and it can also be
worse for giving people headaches so um
if this actually works and is awesome
I'm glad we went with the proper
solution with circular polarization now
for the really hard part because we
cheaped out on our projectors and we
didn't get something with lens shift
aligning these things is going to be as
we say in the biz a
b uh I think we're going to go top and
bottom sure that works all right wow wow
that's pretty great it's
[Music]
3D it's going to be great trying to line
this up now and then we move in there
and we're going to have to redo it you
know my kids still haven't seen Avatar 2
because we still haven't finished this
project wow yeah we can go see it two
years later every once in a while my son
brings it up he's like are we ever going
to watch Avatar 2 maybe block the bottom
one and we'll try and match the top one
to the bottom since we can't figure out
how
to Oh you mean just the IR
I'm sorry we know the top of the image
is kind of a mess but the bottom left
corner is good enough for us to at least
see if it works now we just need to
figure out content now if I was a boomer
or something and I had a Blu-ray player
then this would be no problem I would
just put Blu-rays in it but I don't and
I'm not going to so how do I get the
right image to go to one of my
projectors and the left image to go to
the other this actually required more
tinkering behind the scenes than believe
it or not anything else we've done so
far I used our handy dandy video on how
to rip your own Blu-rays except I ripped
the 3D versions then I followed this
Reddit thread on r/v to remux it back
into a 3D file format using a program
called bd3d to
mk3d then we just need another program
called stereoscopic 3D player from 3D
tv. we adjust the output settings and
Vel half frames on one side half the
frames on the other side VOA what when
you say VOA you're supposed to show it
working oh well let's get it working
then okay cool if thought all of that
was too fast and made no sense that's
okay we're going to have that guide and
all the products that we used in the
video description for now let's watch a
movie oh God oh God oh that is not good
oh we might have remux this file in the
wrong format the cross Talk's very good
but wa hold on no you can see it's split
in half oh balls part of that whole BD
3D tool is you can actually choose how
you want to split your frames Left Right
top Center if you want to split it in
half so half of it goes on one half of
it goes on the other it took a lot of
trial and error and depending on the
Blu-ray file itself can actually depend
on how you need to remux it okay so this
one no good let's try the Tron legacy
one that I know for a fact I got
working oh dude dude it's totally 3D
dude it's totally 3D holy crap dude no
way that is like actually theater grade
too dude this worked way better than I
thought it was going to oh dude yeah
it's pretty sick okay okay worth it what
about the TV though do we want to
permanently install this in your theater
room because if we do I would say that
we would need to get the better
projectors before we rip your TV off the
wall I would like to see a not
liveaction film though oh buddy
wow dude the she it's coming right out
it's coming right for us I had about 4%
confidence coming and filming today how
did this not take off I'm kidding now
that we've got it working the next step
is the hardest part pulling that TV off
the wall weighs about 400 lb mounting
the projector screen then getting
everything lined up just kidding we came
up with a better way I found some random
brackets in my garage and we turned them
into a projector mount that is going to
us to mount the screen on the TV I hope
we're going to find out okay dude
seriously though this is not as stupid
as it might seem this is the original
French cleat mount you can see it goes
there like that and then just needs to
hang off the TV this feels so wrong uh
yes let me just drape my $6,000 screen
over my $20,000 TV with nothing but one
baby wipe in between that is
perfect oh dude no problem
[Music]
obviously this is not you know an
everyday solution you know it's not like
oh yeah let's watch a 3D movie just to
flip over to 3D mode or whatever like I
could set this up in the time it would
take to drive to the theater so like
that's perfectly acceptable to me whoa
whoa buddy off off off I'm off I'm off
I'm off down it comes I'm off okay those
did not clear oh those really look like
they were going to clear
they did not can you imagine watching
the room in 3D on this I did not hit her
Me by zo's ass just like coming out of
the screen okay mine's in dude that's
pretty easy that's a pretty easy hook
yeah oh my
goodness you got everything set oh my
gosh don't act too surprised you helped
yeah I I helped um basically we made a
platform we got some counter balances um
we hooked it up to the home theater
audio setup and theoretically this is
okay it's not perfectly aligned but
hopefully aligned
enough we're going to try it I have some
news for you okay guess what's working
the 3D projector yeah finally wow really
that took like 4
years this is it huge moment two years
in the
making does it work stopped making it
after like six months no we've been
working on it the whole time here we go
I think there's definitely encoding
settings that could probably be improved
yes it almost feels like it's
alternating which frame it's instead of
synchron them yeah so still shots are
good but motion's a little rough now
this is an older movie why don't we try
something a little newer yeah anything
in motion yeah it's a little problematic
and the imperfect alignment doesn't help
not helping
but when they're in the center and it's
just a static camera shot like that
looks great that looks kind of awesome
okay that's pretty cool these projectors
for 500 bucks each dude like huh I mean
you spend that much on don't worry about
it
oh buddy with the eyes that was pretty
wow it's so hard to convince this over
camera to you guys like how well this is
actually working cuz you know for you
guys it looks blurry and crappy and
crappy put gles over the camera yeah it
doesn't work that way it quite work that
way we'd need two cameras and two
glasses and then they would need 3D
glasses and on their side now the moment
that you have waited over 2 years for my
son Avatar oh
man 100% worth it 100% worth it dude
dude this is insane obviously we can't
sit and watch the whole film or whatever
but but suffice it to say this is
freaking awesome this result is so much
better than I would have expected
there's so little cross talk very very
little I mean that's what happens when
you're using professional grade Optics y
so uh family movie night this weekend we
finally watch Avatar worth the
wait well okay don't yeah did I ever
tell you you can play games in Stereo 3D
no you can there's a huge library of
games guys leave a comment if you have
any brilliant ideas for the best way to
do it but what I'm thinking is final
form like the greatest stereo 3D gaming
setup of all time can I have
it uh well I mean it'll be in our house
you can use it but can I own it you can
own the
segue to our sponsor vessie they offer
all kinds of stylish functional shoes
for everyday wear and now you can get
access to their dry sock guarantee for
even less that's right my friends you
can save up to 40% on select shoes at
their Black Friday sale right now our
team loves their vessis because here in
Vancouver the weather is just so
unpredictable and let's face it finding
shoes that match your fit that's not
always easy and if you add in the
constant thread of a sudden downpour
you've got a recipe for trouble so why
not check out vessie their new
lightweight Courtside Classics that
sport that retro everyday look with a
padded tongue for extra Comfort or if
you're more of a wild Adventurer their
stormburst high tops combined the
comfort of a sneaker with the grip and
coverage of an outdoor boot so whether
you're heading over to Grandma's for
turkey dinner or going for a run to burn
off those extra calories vessie has got
you covered don't miss out on their
Black Friday sale at vessie
docomo this video why not go check out
the retrospective we did on stereo 3D
and what ultimately happened to it
that's what kickstarted this entire
journey and I'm not going to lie kind of
glad it did